so how did a bird that inspires so much
passion start working for a rafting
company 14 years ago what we did the
first year we immediately hired a
photographer and we would tell customers
hey we took some great photos if you
like to buy them you have to buy them
sight unseen but we'll get them to you
there's an X amount if you don't like
them for any reason send them back and
we'll refund your money
we sold photos but not as many as we
thought we should have so out of that
whole conversation fell this idea of we
need something like an eagle or some
bird that could just bring them back
thus the pigeons the initial reaction to
this suggestion however was hardly one
of confidence no way no way you're
pulling my chain it's classic for rap
guides to pull your chain all the time
and then I saw the birds and they're
like solid cage sell the backpack and I
was like wow you're serious alright so
yeah about a month later I started
working on it pretty steadily but we
would tell people sorry about your
photos this year we're gonna mail them
to you but next year we're gonna have
some pigeons that bring them back and
people thought that was a bird brained
idea but we can seem to work on it and
pigeon Express should have happened but
like all labors of love getting the
pigeon Express operational took a very
very long time gets to 19 took almost a
year and a half what delayed us was I
didn't have a pigeon but once the small
detail of getting the pigeon was taken
care of and the backpack design was
finalized the birds training could start
in earnest it took months to train the
birds some of the simple techniques we
would use is we wouldn't feed them till
they came home so they got rewarded for
flying home and then we take them down
the street to like a quarter of a mile
then we jump to a half mile so it took
months to do that
but how can a bird with a brain the size
of a posh Petit Pois PE navigate its way
home from 30 miles up a canyon or as is
the case with some racing pigeons
hundreds of miles overseas what routes
are they taking what senses are they
using it's kind of a mystery to everyone
how they home I I have no idea to tell
you the honest truth nobody really knows
there
theories
[Music]